docs: add release notes for 1.10.0 (#848)
canonical/rockcraft: docs/release-notes/rockcraft-1-10-0.rst

.. _release-1.10.0:

Rockcraft 1.10.0 release notes
==============================

> 28 February 2025 TODO

Reviewer: Marking this in GH too, so neither of us forget.

Learn about the new features, changes, and fixes introduced in Rockcraft 1.10.0.
For information about the Rockcraft release cycle, see the
:ref:`release_policy_and_schedule`.

Requirements and compatibility
------------------------------

To run Rockcraft, a system requires the following minimum hardware and
installed software. These requirements apply to local hosts as well as VMs and
container hosts.

Minimum hardware requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- AMD64, ARM64, ARMv7-M, RISC-V 64-bit, PowerPC 64-bit little-endian, or S390x
  processor
- 2GB RAM
- 10GB available storage space
- Internet access for remote software sources and the Snap Store

Platform requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :widths: 1 3 3

  * - Platform
    - Version
    - Software requirements
  * - GNU/Linux
    - Popular distributions that ship with systemd and are `compatible with
      snapd <https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snapd>`_
    - systemd

What's new
----------

Rockcraft 1.10.0 brings the following features, integrations, and improvements.

ExpressJS extension
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The new ExpressJS extension streamlines the process of building rocks bundling ExpressJS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new ExpressJS extension streamlines the process of building rocks that bundle ExpressJS
```

applications. This extension makes it easy to install your application's dependencies,
including the Node.js interpreter and NPM.

> This new extension is experimental and subject to change. For more information, checkout
> the :ref:`tutorial <build-a-rock-for-an-expressjs-application>` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new extension is experimental and subject to change. For more information, check out
the ExpressJS :ref:`tutorial <build-a-rock-for-an-expressjs-application>` and
```

Minor features
--------------

Rockcraft 1.10.0 brings the following minor changes.

Part sources
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``source-commit`` :ref:`key <source_commit>` now accepts short hashes in addition
to the full hash of a Git commit.

OCI Annotations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Generated rocks now have a ``org.opencontainers.image.description`` annotation
containing the project's summary and description.

Fixed bugs and issues
---------------------

The following issues have been resolved in Rockcraft 1.10.0:

- `#831 <https://github.com/canonical/rockcraft/pull/831>`_ Add missing binaries for the
  ``go-framework`` extension when using bare bases.
- `#839 <https://github.com/canonical/rockcraft/pull/839>`_ Fix Python Chisel slice for
  the ``django-framework`` and ``flask-framework`` extensions when using bare bases.

Contributors
------------

We would like to express a big thank you to all the people who contributed to
this release.

:literalref:`@alesancor1<https://github.com/alesancor1>`,
:literalref:`@bepri<https://github.com/bepri>`,
:literalref:`@cjdcordeiro<https://github.com/cjdcordeiro>`,
:literalref:`@erinecon<https://github.com/erinecon>`,

> :literalref:`@jdkandersson<https://github.com/jdkandersson>`.
> :literalref:`@medubelko<https://github.com/medubelko>`.
> :literalref:`@mr-cal<https://github.com/mr-cal>`.
> :literalref:`@tigarmo<https://github.com/tigarmo>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:literalref:`@jdkandersson<https://github.com/jdkandersson>`,
:literalref:`@medubelko<https://github.com/medubelko>`,
:literalref:`@mr-cal<https://github.com/mr-cal>`,
:literalref:`@tigarmo<https://github.com/tigarmo>`,
```
